docs/pages/docs/configuration/autorc.mdx, before:

---
title: \`auto\` Configuration File
---

import DefaultLabelRenderer from "../generated/defaultLabelsRenderer.mdx";

`auto` uses [cosmiconfig](https://github.com/davidtheclark/cosmiconfig) to find your config.
This means you can define this file a variety of ways.
`cosmiconfig` will start at the root of your project and start to search up the directory tree for the following:

- an `auto` package.json property
- a JSON or YAML, extension-less rc file ".autorc"
- an "rc file" with the extensions `.json`, `.yaml`, `.yml`, `.ts` or `.js`
- a `auto.config.js` or `auto.config.js` CommonJS module
- a `auto.config.ts` TypeScript module

## Initialization

To interactively create an `.autorc` use the `init` command. You can configure most flags and all labels/changelogTitles.

```bash
auto init
```

## TypeScript Configuration

You can write your `auto` configuration in a TypeScript file for easier validation

**auto.config.ts:**

```ts
import { AutoRc } from "auto";

import { INpmConfig } from "@auto-it/npm";
import { IAllContributorsPluginOptions } from "@auto-it/all-contributors";

const npmOptions: INpmConfig = {
  exact: true,
  canaryScope: "@auto-canary",
};

const allContributorsOptions: IAllContributorsPluginOptions = {
  types: {
    plugin: "**/plugin/**/*",
    code: ["**/src/**/*", "**/package.json", "**/tsconfig.json"],
  },
};

/** Auto configuration */
export default function rc(): AutoRc {
  return {
    plugins: [
      "released",
      ["npm", npmOptions],
      ["all-contributors", allContributorsOptions],
    ],
    labels: [
      {
        name: "blog-post",
        changelogTitle: "📚 Blog Post",
        releaseType: "none",
      },
    ],
  };
}
```

## Options

The following are all of the top level configuration options for `auto`.
While some of the following options also exist as flags to certain comments,
it is recommended to set them in an `.autorc` so your commands are terser and experience consistent.

### Only Publish With Release Label

Configure the default release behavior.

```json
{
  "onlyPublishWithReleaseLabel": true
}
```

### Base Branch

Configure what your repo considers the base branch.
Defaults to either `main` or `master`.

```json
{
  "baseBranch": "trunk"
}
```

### Plugins

It is useful to specify your plugins in the rc file rather than in all the commands.

```json
{
  "plugins": ["npm", "../path/to/plugin.js", "NPM_PACKAGE_NAME"]
}
```

### githubApi

If you are using enterprise github, `auto` lets you configure the github API URL that it uses.

```json
{
  "githubApi": "https://github.mine.com/api/v3"
}
```

### githubGraphqlApi

This is used for doing some searches in `auto`.

The default behavior will construct the root API url for GitHub Enterprise.
If you are using enterprise github and your company hosts the graphql at some other URL than the `githubApi`, you can use `githubGraphqlApi` to set the base path for `auto`.

```json
{
  "githubGraphqlApi": "https://github.mine.com/other/api/"
}
```

### author

The name and email to use with git.

```json
{
  "author": "Joe Schmo <joe@schmo.com>"
}
```

or

```json
{
  "author": {
    "name": "Joe Schmo",
    "email": "joe@schmo.com"
  }
}
```

### name

Name to use with git.

> NOTE: Will be deprecated in v10

```json
{
  "name": "Joe Schmo"
}
```

### email

Email to use with git.

> NOTE: Will be deprecated in v10

```json
{
  "email": "joe@schmo.com"
}
```

### noVersionPrefix

Do not make tags or releases with a `v` prefix.

```json
{
  "noVersionPrefix": true
}
```

### Command Defaults

For some commands you can supply defaults for some options.

**Example:** Adding the following to you `.autorc` will make `auto` only release pre-releases to GitHub.

```json
{
  "release": {
    "prerelease": true
  }
}
```

Please refer to each command's documentation to see which options are configurable.

---

### Exclusive Options

The following options can be set exclusively in the `.autorc` and do not exist as CLI flags.

### versionBranches

Create and manage old major releases.

```json
{
  "versionBranches": true,
  // or customize the branch prefix
  "versionBranches": "major-"
}
```

### Prerelease Branches

You can configure what branches `auto` treats as prerelease branches.
By default only `next` is treated as a prerelease branch.
If you configure `prereleaseBranches` it will override the default.

```json
{
  "prereleaseBranches": ["next", "beta"]
}
```

### Labels

To customize your project's labels use the `labels` section in your `.autorc`.

```json
{
  "labels": [
    { "releaseType": "major", "name": "Version: Major" },
    { "releaseType": "minor", "name": "Version: Minor" },
    { "releaseType": "patch", "name": "Version: Patch" },
    { "releaseType": "skip", "name": "NO!" },
    { "releaseType": "release", "name": "Autobots, rollout!" }
  ]
}
```

#### Default Labels

<DefaultLabelRenderer />

#### Overriding default Labels

By default Auto will add the labels you configured to the list of default labels. If you want to create only the labels you configured and ignore defaults, use `noDefaultLabels` option:

```json
{
  "noDefaultLabels": true,
  "labels": [
    // custom labels
  ]
}
```

#### Label Customization

You can customize everything about a label

- `name` - The label text used for the label. If omitted defaults to the `key` value
- `releaseType` - The type of release to trigger (major, minor, patch, skip, release, or none)
- `overwrite` - Overwrite the default label(s) associated with the `releaseType`. (default: `false`)
- `changelogTitle` - The title to use in the changelog
- `description` - The description to use when creating the label
- `default` - Marks this label as the default label for unlabelled PRs (`patch` is the default "default label")
- `color` - The color of the label. Can be specified as a string in any of [these](https://github.com/bgrins/TinyColor#accepted-string-input) ways. If not specified the color is random

```json
{
  "labels": [
    {
      "name": "Version: Major",
      "changelogTitle": "The API has changed:",
      "description": "Add this label to a PR to create a major release",
      "color": "blue",
      "releaseType": "major"
    }
  ]
}
```

#### Release Type: `skip`

A label with the `skip` release type will not create a release when merged even when paired with other labels.

```json
{
  "labels": [
    {
      "name": "infra",
      "releaseType": "skip"
    }
  ]
}
```

#### Release Type: `none`

A label with the `none` release type will not create a release when merged.
If paired with a SEMVER label, the release is not skipped.

```json
{
  "labels": [
    {
      "name": "documentation",
      "releaseType": "none"
    }
  ]
}
```

#### Changelog Titles

Each PR included in the release will be assigned to a label section based upon the matching label with the highest `releaseType` that has a `changelogTitle`.

- Priority order of `releaseType` from highest to lowest is: major, minor, patch, and then all others
- If a PR has multiple labels of the same `releaseType`, then the PR is assigned based upon the label that is assigned first in the config

By default auto will create sections in the changelog for the following labels:

- `major`
- `minor`
- `patch`
- `internal`
- `documentation`

For example:

- Using the default config, if a given PR has the labels `minor` and `internal`, then it will be included in the `minor` label section
- Using the default config, if a given PR has the labels `documentation` and `internal`, then it will be included in the `internal` label section

##### Updating Default Label Changelog Titles

To customize the title for the section in the changelog you can

```json
{
  "labels": [
    {
      "name": "documentation",
      "changelogTitle": "Docz"
    }
  ]
}
```

##### Adding Additional Changelog Title Sections

If you want more sections in your changelog to further detail the change-set you can
use the `labels` section to add more. Any label in the label section with a changelogTitle
will become a special section in your changelog.

The following adds a `typescript` label to the project that we can use to denote changes
related to a TypeScript re-write.

```json
{
  "labels": [
    {
      "name": "typescript",
      "changelogTitle": "TypeScript Rewrite"
    }
  ]
}
```

#### Removing Default Label Changelog Title Sections

You can remove the existing default label sections by adding a custom overwrite label with the same `releaseType`.

The following removes the default internal and documentation label sections:

```json
{
  "labels": [
    {
      "name": "Custom Doc Label",
      "changelogTitle": "Docz",
      "releaseType": "none",
      "overwrite": true
    }
  ]
}
```

## Extending

If you want to share your auto configuration between projects you can use the `extends` property.
This property will load from a module's `package.json` or from a custom path.
It's expected that the extended configuration be under the `auto` key in the `package.json` file.

Auto can load `extends` configs in the following ways:

- from a path `./path/to/config` (this file must be in JSON format)
- from a scoped package `@YOUR_SCOPE/auto-config` (under the `auto` key in the package.json)
- from a package `auto-config-YOUR_NAME`
- from a url `https://yourdomain.com/auto-config.json` (must return the content type `application/json`)

### Formats

```json
{
  "extends": "@YOUR_SCOPE"
}
```

Will use the package `@YOUR_SCOPE/auto-config`

```json
{
  "extends": "joe"
}
```

Will use the package `auto-config-joe`

> :warning: If extending from a config package make sure it's a dependency of your project

If you're extending from a local file it can be any file in JSON format or a `package.json` file.

```json
{
  "extends": "./path/to/config.json"
}
```

```json
{
  "extends": "./path/to/other/package.json"
}
```

### Custom Plugins

An `extends` configuration can include custom plugins in the NPM package.
This is useful if you have a shared plugin that doesn't necessarily need to be published as it's own package.

> NOTE: This does not work for `auto` configs stored in a url.

To include custom plugins just use a relative path in the extended configuration/

**`package.json`:**

```json
{
  "auto": {
    "plugins": ["./plugins/some-plugin.js"]
  }
}
```

Commit message:

feat: allow load npm module as extends

docs/pages/docs/configuration/autorc.mdx, after:

---
title: \`auto\` Configuration File
---

import DefaultLabelRenderer from "../generated/defaultLabelsRenderer.mdx";

`auto` uses [cosmiconfig](https://github.com/davidtheclark/cosmiconfig) to find your config.
This means you can define this file a variety of ways.
`cosmiconfig` will start at the root of your project and start to search up the directory tree for the following:

- an `auto` package.json property
- a JSON or YAML, extension-less rc file ".autorc"
- an "rc file" with the extensions `.json`, `.yaml`, `.yml`, `.ts` or `.js`
- a `auto.config.js` or `auto.config.js` CommonJS module
- a `auto.config.ts` TypeScript module

## Initialization

To interactively create an `.autorc` use the `init` command. You can configure most flags and all labels/changelogTitles.

```bash
auto init
```

## TypeScript Configuration

You can write your `auto` configuration in a TypeScript file for easier validation

**auto.config.ts:**

```ts
import { AutoRc } from "auto";

import { INpmConfig } from "@auto-it/npm";
import { IAllContributorsPluginOptions } from "@auto-it/all-contributors";

const npmOptions: INpmConfig = {
  exact: true,
  canaryScope: "@auto-canary",
};

const allContributorsOptions: IAllContributorsPluginOptions = {
  types: {
    plugin: "**/plugin/**/*",
    code: ["**/src/**/*", "**/package.json", "**/tsconfig.json"],
  },
};

/** Auto configuration */
export default function rc(): AutoRc {
  return {
    plugins: [
      "released",
      ["npm", npmOptions],
      ["all-contributors", allContributorsOptions],
    ],
    labels: [
      {
        name: "blog-post",
        changelogTitle: "📚 Blog Post",
        releaseType: "none",
      },
    ],
  };
}
```

## Options

The following are all of the top level configuration options for `auto`.
While some of the following options also exist as flags to certain comments,
it is recommended to set them in an `.autorc` so your commands are terser and experience consistent.

### Only Publish With Release Label

Configure the default release behavior.

```json
{
  "onlyPublishWithReleaseLabel": true
}
```

### Base Branch

Configure what your repo considers the base branch.
Defaults to either `main` or `master`.

```json
{
  "baseBranch": "trunk"
}
```

### Plugins

It is useful to specify your plugins in the rc file rather than in all the commands.

```json
{
  "plugins": ["npm", "../path/to/plugin.js", "NPM_PACKAGE_NAME"]
}
```

### githubApi

If you are using enterprise github, `auto` lets you configure the github API URL that it uses.

```json
{
  "githubApi": "https://github.mine.com/api/v3"
}
```

### githubGraphqlApi

This is used for doing some searches in `auto`.

The default behavior will construct the root API url for GitHub Enterprise.
If you are using enterprise github and your company hosts the graphql at some other URL than the `githubApi`, you can use `githubGraphqlApi` to set the base path for `auto`.

```json
{
  "githubGraphqlApi": "https://github.mine.com/other/api/"
}
```

### author

The name and email to use with git.

```json
{
  "author": "Joe Schmo <joe@schmo.com>"
}
```

or

```json
{
  "author": {
    "name": "Joe Schmo",
    "email": "joe@schmo.com"
  }
}
```

### name

Name to use with git.

> NOTE: Will be deprecated in v10

```json
{
  "name": "Joe Schmo"
}
```

### email

Email to use with git.

> NOTE: Will be deprecated in v10

```json
{
  "email": "joe@schmo.com"
}
```

### noVersionPrefix

Do not make tags or releases with a `v` prefix.

```json
{
  "noVersionPrefix": true
}
```

### Command Defaults

For some commands you can supply defaults for some options.

**Example:** Adding the following to you `.autorc` will make `auto` only release pre-releases to GitHub.

```json
{
  "release": {
    "prerelease": true
  }
}
```

Please refer to each command's documentation to see which options are configurable.

---

### Exclusive Options

The following options can be set exclusively in the `.autorc` and do not exist as CLI flags.

### versionBranches

Create and manage old major releases.

```json
{
  "versionBranches": true,
  // or customize the branch prefix
  "versionBranches": "major-"
}
```

### Prerelease Branches

You can configure what branches `auto` treats as prerelease branches.
By default only `next` is treated as a prerelease branch.
If you configure `prereleaseBranches` it will override the default.

```json
{
  "prereleaseBranches": ["next", "beta"]
}
```

### Labels

To customize your project's labels use the `labels` section in your `.autorc`.

```json
{
  "labels": [
    { "releaseType": "major", "name": "Version: Major" },
    { "releaseType": "minor", "name": "Version: Minor" },
    { "releaseType": "patch", "name": "Version: Patch" },
    { "releaseType": "skip", "name": "NO!" },
    { "releaseType": "release", "name": "Autobots, rollout!" }
  ]
}
```

#### Default Labels

<DefaultLabelRenderer />

#### Overriding default Labels

By default Auto will add the labels you configured to the list of default labels. If you want to create only the labels you configured and ignore defaults, use `noDefaultLabels` option:

```json
{
  "noDefaultLabels": true,
  "labels": [
    // custom labels
  ]
}
```

#### Label Customization

You can customize everything about a label

- `name` - The label text used for the label. If omitted defaults to the `key` value
- `releaseType` - The type of release to trigger (major, minor, patch, skip, release, or none)
- `overwrite` - Overwrite the default label(s) associated with the `releaseType`. (default: `false`)
- `changelogTitle` - The title to use in the changelog
- `description` - The description to use when creating the label
- `default` - Marks this label as the default label for unlabelled PRs (`patch` is the default "default label")
- `color` - The color of the label. Can be specified as a string in any of [these](https://github.com/bgrins/TinyColor#accepted-string-input) ways. If not specified the color is random

```json
{
  "labels": [
    {
      "name": "Version: Major",
      "changelogTitle": "The API has changed:",
      "description": "Add this label to a PR to create a major release",
      "color": "blue",
      "releaseType": "major"
    }
  ]
}
```

#### Release Type: `skip`

A label with the `skip` release type will not create a release when merged even when paired with other labels.

```json
{
  "labels": [
    {
      "name": "infra",
      "releaseType": "skip"
    }
  ]
}
```

#### Release Type: `none`

A label with the `none` release type will not create a release when merged.
If paired with a SEMVER label, the release is not skipped.

```json
{
  "labels": [
    {
      "name": "documentation",
      "releaseType": "none"
    }
  ]
}
```

#### Changelog Titles

Each PR included in the release will be assigned to a label section based upon the matching label with the highest `releaseType` that has a `changelogTitle`.

- Priority order of `releaseType` from highest to lowest is: major, minor, patch, and then all others
- If a PR has multiple labels of the same `releaseType`, then the PR is assigned based upon the label that is assigned first in the config

By default auto will create sections in the changelog for the following labels:

- `major`
- `minor`
- `patch`
- `internal`
- `documentation`

For example:

- Using the default config, if a given PR has the labels `minor` and `internal`, then it will be included in the `minor` label section
- Using the default config, if a given PR has the labels `documentation` and `internal`, then it will be included in the `internal` label section

##### Updating Default Label Changelog Titles

To customize the title for the section in the changelog you can

```json
{
  "labels": [
    {
      "name": "documentation",
      "changelogTitle": "Docz"
    }
  ]
}
```

##### Adding Additional Changelog Title Sections

If you want more sections in your changelog to further detail the change-set you can
use the `labels` section to add more. Any label in the label section with a changelogTitle
will become a special section in your changelog.

The following adds a `typescript` label to the project that we can use to denote changes
related to a TypeScript re-write.

```json
{
  "labels": [
    {
      "name": "typescript",
      "changelogTitle": "TypeScript Rewrite"
    }
  ]
}
```

#### Removing Default Label Changelog Title Sections

You can remove the existing default label sections by adding a custom overwrite label with the same `releaseType`.

The following removes the default internal and documentation label sections:

```json
{
  "labels": [
    {
      "name": "Custom Doc Label",
      "changelogTitle": "Docz",
      "releaseType": "none",
      "overwrite": true
    }
  ]
}
```

## Extending

If you want to share your auto configuration between projects you can use the `extends` property.
This property will load from a module's `package.json` or from a custom path.
It's expected that the extended configuration be under the `auto` key in the `package.json` file.

Auto can load `extends` configs in the following ways:

- from a path `./path/to/config` (this file must be in JSON format)
- from a scoped package `@YOUR_SCOPE/auto-config` (under the `auto` key in the package.json)
- from a package `auto-config-YOUR_NAME`
- from a url `https://yourdomain.com/auto-config.json` (must return the content type `application/json`)
- from a node module `auto-config-module` (this default export must be a plain object or a Promise of plain object)

### Formats

```json
{
  "extends": "@YOUR_SCOPE"
}
```

Will use the package `@YOUR_SCOPE/auto-config` (the `auto` key in `package.json` file)

```json
{
  "extends": "joe"
}
```

Will use the package `auto-config-joe` (the `auto` key in `package.json` file)


```json
{
  "extends": "auto-config-module"
}
```

Will use the default export of `auto-config-module` node package

> :warning: If extending from a config package make sure it's a dependency of your project

If you're extending from a local file it can be any file in JSON format or a `package.json` file.

```json
{
  "extends": "./path/to/config.json"
}
```

```json
{
  "extends": "./path/to/other/package.json"
}
```

### Custom Plugins

An `extends` configuration can include custom plugins in the NPM package.
This is useful if you have a shared plugin that doesn't necessarily need to be published as it's own package.

> NOTE: This does not work for `auto` configs stored in a url.

To include custom plugins just use a relative path in the extended configuration/

**`package.json`:**

```json
{
  "auto": {
    "plugins": ["./plugins/some-plugin.js"]
  }
}
```
