docs/pages/docs/build-platforms/github-actions.mdx, before:

---
title: GitHub Actions
---

The following config declares the `release` action that run on all branches. The job will either release:

- a new `latest` version from `baseBranch`
- a `canary` build from a pull request (only on the main fork and if your package manager plugin implements them)

**`.github/workflows/release.yml`**

> :warning: You must use some sort of action that implements `skip ci` functionality (as seen below). Otherwise you will get stuck in a release loop!

```yaml
name: Release

on: [push]

jobs:
  release:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    if: "!contains(github.event.head_commit.message, 'ci skip') && !contains(github.event.head_commit.message, 'skip ci')"
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v2

      - name: Prepare repository
        run: git fetch --unshallow --tags

      - name: Use Node.js 12.x
        uses: actions/setup-node@v1
        with:
          node-version: 12.x

      - name: Cache node modules
        uses: actions/cache@v1
        with:
          path: node_modules
          key: yarn-deps-${{ hashFiles('yarn.lock') }}
          restore-keys: |
            yarn-deps-${{ hashFiles('yarn.lock') }}

      - name: Create Release
        env:
          GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
          NPM_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.NPM_TOKEN }}
        run: |
          yarn install --frozen-lockfile
          yarn build
          npx auto shipit
```

### NPM: Github Package Registry

If you are publishing to the Github Package Registry you will need to change the `NPM_TOKEN` token secret to match the following:

```yml
- name: Create Release
  env:
    GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
    NODE_AUTH_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
  run: |
    yarn install --frozen-lockfile
    yarn build
    npx auto shipit
```

This will use your `GITHUB_TOKEN` to publish to the Github Package Registry.
The `NODE_AUTH_TOKEN` variable is required the `.npmrc` that `actions/setup-node@v1` sets up.
If you aren't using `actions/setup-node@v1` replace the variable name `NODE_AUTH_TOKEN` with `NPM_TOKEN` and the `.npmrc` `auto` will handle authentication instead.

## Troubleshooting

If you are having problems make sure you have done the following:

- Any required secrets for plugins are set (e.g. `NPM_TOKEN` with the NPM plugin)
- Update references of `<your-github-user>`, `<project-owner>`, and `<project-repo>` with the appropriate values

### Running With Branch Protection

GitHub actions require a little more setup to use `auto` with branch protection.

```yml
steps:
  - uses: actions/checkout@v2
    with:
      # Ensure that git uses your token with write access to the repo
      token: ${{ secrets.GH_TOKEN }}

  - name: Prepare repository
    # Fetch full git history and tags
    run: git fetch --unshallow --tags
```

## Examples

- [`auto-config-hipstersmoothie`](https://github.com/hipstersmoothie/auto-config-hipstersmoothie/blob/07d128afd96ac6a7b0fe3f04313847c0fc3d84a2/.github/workflows/push.yml)
- [`create-check`](https://github.com/hipstersmoothie/create-check/blob/master/.github/workflows/push.yml)
- [`octokit-cli`](https://github.com/hipstersmoothie/octokit-cli/blob/master/.github/workflows/push.yml)
- [`auto-lerna-gh-actions`](https://github.com/hipstersmoothie/auto-lerna-gh-actions)

Commit message:

improve GitHub actions docs + remove unnecessary warning

docs/pages/docs/build-platforms/github-actions.mdx, after:

---
title: GitHub Actions
---

The following config declares the `release` action that run on all branches. The job will either release:

- a new `latest` version from `baseBranch`
- a `canary` build from a pull request (only on the main fork and if your package manager plugin implements them)

**`.github/workflows/release.yml`**

> :warning: You must use some sort of action that implements `skip ci` functionality (as seen below). Otherwise you will get stuck in a release loop!

```yaml
name: Release

on: [push]

jobs:
  release:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    if: "!contains(github.event.head_commit.message, 'ci skip') && !contains(github.event.head_commit.message, 'skip ci')"
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v2

      - name: Prepare repository
        run: git fetch --unshallow --tags

      - name: Use Node.js 12.x
        uses: actions/setup-node@v1
        with:
          node-version: 12.x

      - name: Cache node modules
        uses: actions/cache@v1
        with:
          path: node_modules
          key: yarn-deps-${{ hashFiles('yarn.lock') }}
          restore-keys: |
            yarn-deps-${{ hashFiles('yarn.lock') }}

      - name: Create Release
        env:
          GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
          NPM_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.NPM_TOKEN }}
        run: |
          yarn install --frozen-lockfile
          yarn build
          npx auto shipit
```

### NPM: Github Package Registry

If you are publishing to the Github Package Registry you will need to change a few things.

1. Modify the node action to use the Github Package Registry and your user scope.

```yml
- name: Use Node.js 12.x
  uses: actions/setup-node@v1
  with:
    node-version: 12.x
    registry-url: "https://npm.pkg.github.com"
    scope: "@your-username-scope"
```

2. Use the `GITHUB_TOKEN` as the `NODE_AUTH_TOKEN` to publish to the Github Package Registry.

```yml
- name: Create Release
  env:
    GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
    NODE_AUTH_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
  run: |
    yarn install --frozen-lockfile
    yarn build
    npx auto shipit
```

The `NODE_AUTH_TOKEN` variable is required the `.npmrc` that `actions/setup-node@v1` sets up.
If you aren't using `actions/setup-node@v1` replace the variable name `NODE_AUTH_TOKEN` with `NPM_TOKEN` and the `.npmrc` `auto` will handle authentication instead.

## Troubleshooting

If you are having problems make sure you have done the following:

- Any required secrets for plugins are set (e.g. `NPM_TOKEN` with the NPM plugin)
- Update references of `<your-github-user>`, `<project-owner>`, and `<project-repo>` with the appropriate values

### Running With Branch Protection

GitHub actions require a little more setup to use `auto` with branch protection.
We can't use the `GITHUB_TOKEN` to commit to the branch because it does not have high enough permissions.
You will need to create a token with admin access to your repo and modify your build config like the following:

```yml
steps:
  - uses: actions/checkout@v2
    with:
      # Ensure that git uses your token with admin access to the repo
      token: ${{ secrets.GH_TOKEN }}

  - name: Prepare repository
    # Fetch full git history and tags
    run: git fetch --unshallow --tags
```

## Examples

- [`auto-config-hipstersmoothie`](https://github.com/hipstersmoothie/auto-config-hipstersmoothie/blob/07d128afd96ac6a7b0fe3f04313847c0fc3d84a2/.github/workflows/push.yml)
- [`create-check`](https://github.com/hipstersmoothie/create-check/blob/master/.github/workflows/push.yml)
- [`octokit-cli`](https://github.com/hipstersmoothie/octokit-cli/blob/master/.github/workflows/push.yml)
- [`auto-lerna-gh-actions`](https://github.com/hipstersmoothie/auto-lerna-gh-actions)
